mediators are working behind the scenes
to try to secure a ceasefire deal
between Hamas and Israel this week the
US president suggested an agreement was
imminent in response Hamas has
downplayed his optimism saying it had
yet to receive the proposal the US state
department however remains
hopeful our goal is to achieve a deal to
uh reach a humanitarian pause and the
release of hostages is soon as possible
certainly we' welcome getting one by
this weekend um what I can say about the
overall progress is that we made
significant progress towards an
agreement last week when we had
officials from the United States
government engaging in the region we
continue to pursue further progress this
week American officials across the
government continue to be engaged on
this question um we are trying to push
this deal over the Finish Line we do
think it's
possible bam name is Hamas hel of
political and international relations
he's joining us live now from Istanbul
thank you very much indeed for being
with us sir is Hamas as optimistic as US
President Joe Biden and the state
department that some sort of ceasefire
deal could be reached by next
Monday we in the movement we were always
optimistic to achieve an end of this
Slaughter and aggression against our
people but to be honest and to be
related to the reality uh I think based
on the ideas and thoughts we have
received after the meeting in Paris to
uh the Gap is still wide and uh we have
to discuss a lot of points with the
mediators and if the Americans are want
to be really optimistic they have to end
this double standard games they talk on
one tank for stopping the uh aggression
or for for achieving a seed fair and
avoiding broadening the the conflict
into the region but at the same time
they are using the veto in the security
Council to uh to reach a they are
approving $4 billion for for Israel they
are securing Israel with more ammunition
I think uh more or less I can say that
this optimism uh is not related to the
reality on the ground and it is more
part of the internal American politics
in the year of the election um I know
that Hamas has said that it has yet to
receive any sort of proposal for
ceasefire there have of course been a
lot of leaked details apparently about
some sort of ceasefire given what you
know about the possibility of what might
be out there is there anything that
Hamas would be prepared to be flexible
on Hamas have showed from the beginning
great flexibility uh to achieve a c
because we know
every added day to this Slaughter means
150 new civilians Palestinians killed
people are in the northern part of Gaza
STP are dying because of starvation we
know exactly what does it mean our
families are still there in the Gaza
City and in the northern part of the Gaz
STP but at the same time this
flexibility cannot be at the cost of our
main and strategic goals for example we
are looking not for a a human Arian pose
or a humanitarian ceas we are looking
for a final total comprehensive ceire we
are looking for a total withdrawal of
the Israeli Army Israeli forces from the
Gaza STP we are looking for allowing all
Palestinians fre to move from the south
to the north and vice versa we cannot
accept keeping our people 1.5 million
Palestinians in the southern part of Gaz
kept hostages under the Israeli uh
policy or Within part of the Israeli
internal political games between the
right and the left therefore this is the
Baseline where we can build on when it
comes to the SE to the prisoner deal or
to the rebuilding plans yes there is uh
space for flexibility about the numbers
and about the phases phase one phase two
uh about how big how huge the operation
of re buildings or R resuscitating of
the people in G how can we do it but
when it comes to the ceas final and
total declared ceas when it comes to
Total withdrawal and when it comes to
the allowing the people uh Palestinians
from the south to the north to move
freely without any uh break conditions I
think this is the red line where we we
we cannot cross you mentioned the
rebuilding process and I want to ask you
about the future of Gaza particularly at
the point at which this kind this war
eventually does end I understand that
Hamas and fata officials are currently
in Moscow for talks part of that I
believe is a pro to try to find some
sort of process of moving forward some
sort of governing process for Gaza what
would Hamas hope to achieve out of those
talks given that so far there is a lot
of international pressure to have Hamas
not involved in any future for
Gaza first of all I have to reassure
everyone that Hamas is not looking or or
or putting a condition to be part or not
to be part we this is not the main
question the main question that we have
always worked hardly and we have shown a
lot of
flexibility uh to reach Palestinian
unity and Palestinian reconciliation if
the Palestinian division before October
7th was a choice I think after October
7th it is not a choice we it is a month
to reach unity and flexibility it is
very harmful for our
future goals as Palestinian to get rid
of the occupation to achieve our
political goals of an independent state
to achieve Unity therefore we have
proposed a Unity government or a
consensus government or a technocrat
government uh it should not be that
Hamas part of that uh the main thing is
that this government is acceptable from
all Palestinians representing all
Palestinians acceptable from the
International Community and can perform
the Tas which mean the rebuilding
process which mean the reunification of
the institutions between Gaza and R and
preparing for comprehensive elections at
political elections at all levels I mean
the national elections the presidential
elections and the PC election therefore
we hope that MOS talks can uh push this
uh these goals a step forward you
mentioned the level of Devastation that
has happened in Gaza since October the
7th and of course the numbers who have
died as a result of the Israeli action
with all that has happened to
Palestinians since October the 7th and
the Hamas L incursion into Southern
Israel how much Palestinian support can
Hamas rely on particularly in Gaza and
the West
Bank
I think Hamas in October 7th have
behaved and acted in accordance with our
national goals of resisting the
occupation looking how can we get rid of
this occupation how how can we break
this 17 years old suffocating Siege how
can we get our uh independent sovereign
state and how how can we guarantee the
right of return for Palestinians who has
been displaced for years uh portally
uh but at the same time what we are
looking for after this aggression uh we
are ready to uh to participate in a
comprehensive process to run or to
organize a democratic transparent free
election and the Palestinians have all
the right to choose their leadership to
choose to choose their political track
and I think that all the polls have been
B by done by neutral independent bodies
after October 7th including the the poll
done by Dr KH shaki 100 day after
October 7th have shown that 90% of the
Palestinians are supporting the
resistance are supporting the act of of
October 7th and looking for serious
steps to to reach their final National
goals of self sovereignity and
independent state but at the end again
it is not the the question of Hamas in
the government or not the question is
how can our people achieve their main
National goals b i name Hama head of
political and international relations we
appreciate it thank you very much
indeed please